F
tu
th
C
A
D
D
D
D
D
 
      
D
R
 
D
M
th
p
u
 
©
DFor the past se v
urn up missin g
he find the los t
Credits 
Adventure Desig n
Development an d
D&D Organized P
D&D R&D Playe r
D&D Adventurer s
D&D Adventurer s
Debut: October 3
Release: Novem b
DUNGEONS & D R
Master’s Guide,  D&
heir respective lo g
property of Wizar d
unauthorized use 
©2014 Wizards o f
Delémont, CH. Re
Not for r
Dr
veral nights, d r
g from the nea r
t and bring jus t
n: Sterling Hers h
d Editing: Bill Be n
Play: Chris Tulac
r Experience: Gre
s League Wizard s
s League Admini
3, 2014 
ber 1, 2014 
RAGONS, D&D, W
&D Adventurers L e
gos are trademar k
ds of the Coast. T h
of the material or 
f the Coast LLC, P
presented by Ha s
resale. Permission
rums
rums have bee n
rby farms, leav i
tice to the abd u
hey 
nham, Claire Ho f
h 
eg Bilsland 
s Team: Greg Bil
strators: Robert 
Wizards of the Co
eague, D&D Enc o
ks of Wizards of t h
his material is pr o
artwork containe d
PO Box 707, Rent o
sbro Europe, 4 Th e
 granted to print o
s in 
n heard on the 
ing only mudd y
uctors? An adv e
Adventure 
ffman, Chris Tul a
sland, Chris Lin d
Adducci, Bill Be n
ast, Forgotten Re a
ounters, D&D Exp
he Coast in the U S
otected under the c
d herein is prohi b
on, WA 98057-070
e Square, Stockle y
or photocopy this 
the
wind, coming f
y, clawed footp r
enture for 1st- 4
Code: DDE X
ach, Travis Woo d
dsay, Shelly Maz z
nham, Travis W o
alms, the dragon 
editions, D&D E p
SA and other cou n
copyright laws of 
bited without the e
7, USA. Manufac t
y Park, Uxbridge, M
document for pe r
e Ma
from the Twili g
rints heading t
4th level chara c
X1-7 
dall 
zanoble, Chris T
oodall, Claire Ho f
ampersand, Playe
pics, all other Wiz a
ntries. All charact e
the United State s
express written p e
tured by Hasbro S
Middlesex, UB11 
rsonal use only. 
arsh 
ght Marsh. Ea c
towards the m a
cters. 
ulach 
ffman, Greg Ma r
er’s Handbook, M o
ards of the Coast 
ers and their disti
s of America. Any 
ermission of Wiza
SA, Rue Emile-Bo é
1ET, UK. 
 
ch morning, m o
arsh. Can you h
rks, Alan Patrick
onster Manual, D u
product names, a
nctive likenesses 
reproduction or 
rds of the Coast.
échat 31, 2800 
ore 
help 
ungeon 
and 
are 

Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   2 Introduction 
Welcome to Drums in the Marsh , a D&D ExpeditionsTM 
adventure, part of the official D&D Adventurers League
TM organized play system and the Tyranny of 
DragonsTM storyline season.  
 This adventure is designed for three to seven 1st-
4th level characters, and is  optimized for five 3rd 
level characters. Characters outside this level range 
cannot participate in this adventure. Players with 
ineligble characters can create a new 1st-level character or use a pregenerated character . 
 The adventure occurs along the Trank River and 
within the Twilight Marsh. Bo th are located east of the 
city Phlan on the north shore of the Moonsea in Faer ûn. 
The D&D Adventurers 
League 
This adventure is official for D&D Adventurers League 
play. The D&D Adventurers League is the official 
organized play system for D UNGEONS & DRAGONS ®. 
Players can create characters and participate in any adventure allowed as a part of the D&D Adventurers League. As they adventure, players track their 
characters’ experience, treasu re, and other rewards, and 
can take those characters through other adventures that will continue their story.  D&D Adventurers League play is broken up into 
storyline seasons. When players create characters, they 
attach those characters to  a storyline season, which 
determines what rules they’re allowed to use to create and advance their characters. Players can continue to 
play their characters after the storyline season has 
finished, possibly participating in a second or third storyline with those same characters. A character’s level is the only limitation for adventure play. A player cannot 
use a character of a level higher or lower than the level 
range of a D&D Adventurers League adventure.  If you’re running this adventure as a part of a store event or at certain conventions, you’ll need a DCI 
number . This number is your official Wizards of the 
Coast organized play identifier. If you don’t have a 
number, you can obtain one at a store event. Check with your organizer for details.  
 For more information on playing, running games as a 
Dungeon Master, and organizing games for the D&D Adventurers League, please visit the D&D Adventurers 
League home . Preparing the Adventure 
Before you show up to Dungeon Master this adventure 
for a group of players, you should do the following to prepare.  • Make sure to have a copy of the most current 
version of the D&D basic rules  or the 
Player’s 
HandbookTM.   
• Read through the adventure, taking notes of 
anything you’d like to highlight or remind yourself 
while running the adventure, such as a way you’d like to portray an NPC or a tactic you’d like to use in a combat. 
• Get familiar with the monster statistics in the 
Appendix. 
• Gather together any resources you’d like to use to 
aid you in Dungeon Mastering, such as notecards, a 
DM screen, miniatures, battlemaps, etc.  
• If you know the composition of the group 
beforehand, you can make adjustments as noted throughout the adventure.  
Before Play at the Table 
Ask the players to provide you with relevant character information. This includes:   
• Character name and level 
• Character race and class 
• Passive Wisdom (Perception)—the most common 
passive ability check 
• Anything notable as specified by the adventure 
(such as backgrounds, traits, flaws, and so on) 
 
Players that have characters outside the adventure’s 
level range cannot participate in the adventure with 
those characters . Players with ineligible characters can 
make a new 1st-level character or use a pregenerated character. Players can play an adventure they previously played or ran as a Dungeon Master, but not with the 
same character (if applicable).  
 Ensure that each player has an official adventure 
logsheet  for his or her character (if not, get one from the 
organizer). The player will fill out the adventure name, 
session number, date, and yo ur name and DCI number. 
In addition, the player also fills in the starting values for XP, gold, downtime, renown, and number of permanent magic items. He or she will fill in the other values and 
write notes at the conclusion of the session. Each player 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   3 is responsible for maintaining an accurate logsheet.  
 If you have time, you can do a quick scan of a player’s character sheet to ensure that nothing looks out of 
order. If you see magic items of very high rarities or 
strange arrays of ability scores, you can ask players to provide documentation for the irregularities. If they cannot, feel free to restrict item use or ask them to use a 
standard ability score array. Point players to the D&D 
Adventurers League Player’s Guide  for reference. 
 If players wish to spend downtime days and it’s the 
beginning of an adventure or  episode, they can declare 
their activity and spend the days now, or they can do so 
at the end of the adventure or episode.   Players should select their characters’ spells and other daily options prior to the start of the adventure, 
unless the adventure specifies otherwise. Feel free to 
reread the adventure description to help give players hints about what they might face. 
Adjusting the Adventure 
Throughout this adventure, you may see sidebars to help 
you make adjustments to this adventure for 
smaller/larger groups and ch aracters, of higher/lower 
levels that the optimized gr oup size. Most of the time, 
this is used for combat encounters.  
 You may adjust the adventure beyond the guidelines 
given in the adventure, or for other reasons. For example, if you’re playing with a group of inexperienced players, you might want to make the adventure a little 
easier; for very experienced players, you might want to 
make it a little harder. Therefor e, five categories of party 
strength have been created for you to use as a guide. Use these as a guide, and feel free to use a different 
adjustment during the adventure if the recommended 
party strength feels off for the group.  This adventure is optimized for a party of five 3rd-
level characters. To figure out whether you need to 
adjust the adventure, do the following: 
 
• Add up the total levels of all the characters 
• Divide the total by the number of characters 
• Round fractions of .5 or greater up; round frations 
of less than .5 down 
 You’ve now determined the average party level (APL) 
for the adventure. To figure out the party strength for 
the adventure, consult the following table.  Determining Party Strength 
Party Composition   Party Strength 
3-4 characters, APL less than  Very weak 3-4 characters, APL equivalent  Weak 3-4 characters, APL greater than Average 5 characters, APL less than  Weak 5 characters, APL equivalent  Average 5 characters, APL greater than  Strong 6-7 characters, APL less than  Average 6-7 characters, APL equivalent  Strong 6-7 characters, APL greater than Very strong 
 
Average party strength indicates no recommended 
adjustments to the adventure. Each sidebar may or may not offer suggestions for certain party strengths. If a 
particular recommendation is not offered for your group, 
you don’t have to make adjustments.  
Dungeon Mastering the 
Adventure 
As the DM of the session, you have the most important 
role in facilitating the en joyment of the game for the 
players. You help guide the narrative and bring the 
words on these pages to life. The outcome of a fun game session often creates stories that live well beyond the play at the table. Always follow this golden rule when 
you DM for a group: 
 Make decisions and adjudica tions that enhance the fun 
of the adventure when possible. 
 
To reinforce this golden rule, keep in mind the following:  
• You are empowered to make adjustments to the 
adventure and make decisions about how the group 
interacts with the world of this adventure. This is especially important and applicable outside of combat, but feel free to adjust the adventure for 
groups that are having too easy or too hard of a 
time. 
• Don’t make the adventure too easy or too difficult 
for a group. Never being challenged makes for a 
boring game, and being overwhelmed makes for a 
frustrating game. Gauge the experience of the players (not the characters) with the game, try to feel out (or ask) what they like in a game, and 
attempt to give each of them the experience they’re 
after when they play D&D. Give everyone a chance to shine.  
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   4 • Be mindful of pacing, and keep the game session 
moving along appropriately. Watch for stalling, since play loses momentum when this happens. At 
the same time, make sure  that the players don’t 
finish too early; provide them with a full play experience. Try to be aware of running long or short. Adjust the pa cing accordingly. 
• Read-aloud text is just a suggestion; feel free to 
modify the text as you see fit, especially when dialogue is present.  
• Give the players appropriate hints so they can make 
informed choices about how to proceed. Players 
should be given clues and hints when appropriate so they can tackle puzzles, combat, and interactions without getting frustrated over lack of information. 
This helps to encourage immersion in the 
adventure and gives players “little victories” for figuring out good ch oices from clues. 
 
In short, being the DM isn’t about following the 
adventure’s text word-for-word; it’s about facilitating a fun, challenging game environment for the players. The 
Dungeon Master’s Guide TM has more information on 
the art of running a D&D game. 
Downtime and Lifestyle 
At the beginning of each play session, players must 
declare whether or not they are spending any days of 
downtime. The player record s the downtime spent on 
the adventure logsheet. The following options are available to players during downtime (see the D&D 
basic rules  or the D&D Adventurers League Player’s 
Guide for more information): 
 
• Catching up  
• Crafting (exception: multiple characters cannot 
commit to crafting a single item) 
• Practicing a profession 
• Recuperating 
• Spellcasting services (end of the adventure only) 
• Training 
 Other downtime options mi ght be available during 
adventures or unlocked through play, including ­faction-
specific activities. 
 In addition, whenever a character spends downtime days, that character also sp ends the requisite expense 
for his or her lifestyle. Costs are per day, so a character 
that spends ten days of downtime also spends ten days 
of expenses maintaining his or her lifestyle. Some downtime activities help with  lifestyle expenses or add 
lifestyle expenses. 
Spellcasting Services 
Any settlement the size of a town or larger can provide some spellcasting services. char acters need to be able to 
travel to the settlement to  obtain these services. 
Alternatively, if the party finishes an adventure, they can 
be assumed to return to the settlement closest to the 
adventure location.   Spell services generally available include healing and recovery spells, as well as information-gathering spells. 
Other spell services might be available as specified in 
the adventure. The number of spells available to be cast as a service is limited to a maximum of three per day 
total,  unless otherwise noted.  
Spellcasting Services 
Spell    Cost  
Cure wounds (1st level)  10 gp  
Identify    20 gp 
Lesser restoration   40 gp  
Prayer of healing (2nd level)   40 gp  
Remove curse   90 gp  
Speak with dead   90 gp 
Divination    210 gp 
Greater restoration   450 gp  
Raise dead    1,250 gp  
Acolyte Background 
A character possessing the acolyte background requesting 
spellcasting services at a temple  of his or her faith may request 
one spell per day from the Spellcasting Services table for free. 
The only cost paid for the spell is the base price for the 
consumed material component, if any.  
Character Disease,  
Death, and Recovery 
Sometimes bad things happe n, and characters get 
poisoned, diseased, or die. Since you might not have the same characters return from  session to session, here 
are the rules when bad things happen to characters. 
Disease, Poison, and Other Debilitating 
Effects 
A character still affected by diseases, poisons, and other 
similar effects at the conclusion of an adventure can 
spend downtime days recuperati ng until such time as he 
or she resolves the effect to its conclusion (see the recuperating activity in the D&D basic rules). If a 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   5 character doesn’t resolve th e effect between sessions, 
that character begins the next session still affected by the debilitating effect.  
Death 
A character who dies during the course of the adventure 
has a few options at the end of the session (or whenever 
arriving back in civilization) if no one in the adventuring 
party has immediate access to a raise dead or revivify 
spell, or similar magic. A character subject to a raise 
dead spell is affected negatively until all long rests have 
been completed during an ad venture. Alternatively, each 
downtime day spent after raise dead reduces the penalty 
to attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks by 1, in addition to any other benefits the downtime activity 
might provide. 
 Create a New 1st-Level Character. If the dead 
character is unwilling or unable to exercise any of the other options, the player creates a new character. The 
new character does not have any items or rewards 
possessed by the dead character.  Dead Character Pays for Raise Dead. If the 
character’s body is recoverable (it’s not missing any vital 
organs and is mostly whole) and the player would like 
the character to be returned to life, the party can take the body back to civilization and use the dead character’s funds to pay for a 
raise dead spell. A raise 
dead spell cast in this manner costs the character 1,250 
gp.   Character’s Party Pays for Raise Dead. As above, 
except that some or all of the 1,250 gp for the 
raise dead 
spell is paid for by the party at the end of the session. Other characters are under no obligation to spend their funds to bring back a dead party member.  Faction Charity. If the character is of level 1 to 4 and 
a member of a faction, the dead character’s body can be 
returned to civilization and a patron from the faction ensures that he or she receives a 
raise dead spell. 
However, any character invoking this charity forfeits all 
XP and rewards from that session (even those earned 
prior to death during that session), and cannot replay that episode or adventure with that character again. Once a character reaches 5th level, this option is no 
longer available.  
Adventure Background 
The thundering boom of distant drums has emanated 
from the dangerous Twilight Marsh for the last tenday. Since they began, over night disappearances of 
individuals and theft of valuable livestock have plagued farms, travelers, and small settlements around the 
Twilight Marsh and Trank River. The lizardfolk clans of the Twilight Marsh are immediately suspected. 
However, if the rumors are true, the clans are acting far 
more aggressively and rangin g much farther outside the 
marsh than normal. Area residents are frightened, but would be absolutely terrified  if they discovered the 
trouble is due to a black dragon exerting control over the 
Twilight Marsh and subjugating the lizardfolk clans for Throstulgrael's own ends.   
The Dragon and the Lizardfolk 
For years, Lizard King Scalecrusher ruled three 
lizardfolk clans in the Twilight Marsh. Under Scalecrusher's leadership, the Muckmarsh built crude huts and fashioned weapons to conquer the primitive 
Rootwater and Dusk-Dusk clans. Continued clan clashes 
concealed the takeover from outsiders.   About a month ago, the black dragon Throstulgrael, otherwise known as “Velvet,” le ft his former home in the 
Flooded Forest (near Mulmaster) and decided to lay 
claim to the northern Twilight Marsh, including Scalecrusher's lands and underlings. Throstulgrael attacked the camps and villages of the Rootwater and 
Dusk-Dusk clans as a show of force, killing their shaman 
and leaders. The unintimidated and defiant Lizard King refused to bow to Throstulgrael. Predictably, Velvet attacked Scalecrusher's crud ely fortified island and the 
surrounding Muckmarsh village. Throstulgrael's acid 
breath laid waste to the islands and its fierce but overmatched defenders. Throstulgrael put Scalecrusher's half-dissolved head on a pike on the 
king's island as a reminder to those who opposed him. 
Unknown to anyone, Bogclaw, the young lizard king heir, survived the attack an d retreated into the marsh. 
 Throstulgrael declared he would select one member of 
the three greatly diminished clans as chief. The chief 
would answer to and carry out Throstulgrael's orders – or else. Each clan selected their own candidate. In order 
to prove their leadership, loyalty, and combat skill to 
Throstulgrael, the candidates must lead their clans in 
kidnapping as many humano ids and large livestock as 
possible. They must bring them to cages and corrals on the deposed King's Island.  
 Throstulgrael is impressed with powerful captives. 
Stealing livestock (a pig or larger) is acceptable but the least impressive. Capturing humanoid children is regarded as weak and coward ly for a chief. Humanoid 
adults or young adults are more desirable and 
particularly strong or dangerous humanoids are the 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   6 most impressive.  
 Further challenging the lizardfolk, all prisoners must remain alive and uneaten until Velvet returns in two 
tendays. One tenday has already passed. The best 
captives become tribute to Throstulgrael, while the rest become the main course in a grand feast celebrating the new chief.  
Overview  
The characters are invited or hired to investigate kidnappings along the Trank River. They meet their initial contact at the Crossing Inn and given known clues and the happenings of the pa st tenday. As the meeting 
wraps up, a farmhand named Taroo bursts in and 
frantically reports that his employers were kidnapped last night. Taroo pleads for help and the characters are encouraged to go with him downriver to the Renons’ 
farm, where he lives and works.  
 At the farm are clues further implicating the lizardfolk. The characters may visit nearby farms, only to discover additional overnight disappearances and livestock theft. 
The clues spur the characters to head further downriver 
towards the Twilight Marsh.  The weather turns cold and rainy. Overnight, the characters hear the drums for the first time. They are 
ambushed by the Dusk-Dusk clan, following up from the 
night before. The attackers tr y to seize the characters, 
recognizing that captured adventurers should highly impress Throstulgrael. The exact location depends on 
the characters' progress, though it is likely to be on or 
near the river.  When the characters arrive at the Twilight Marsh, they are free to search however they wish. Along the 
way, they must contend with a giant toad attack and 
avoid or defeat liz ardfolk patrols.  
 They also likely run across a prisoner raft escorted by Dusk-Dusk or Rootwater kidn appers (depending on the 
territory). The adventurers may rescue the prisoners or 
follow them to the Ringcurrent Islands where the rest are held. Rescued prisoners can provide more clues to the events in the marsh, and are capable of finding their 
way out of the marsh withou t the party escorting them. 
 The characters eventually locate the Muckmarsh village in the Ringcurrent Islands. They get the chance to investigate the outer islands and find further clues as 
to Throstulgrael's attack and the kidnapping contest. 
They discover a mysterious large lizardfolk lurking about, but he disappears with out making contact. He is 
Bogclaw, the deposed king's heir, looking to retake 
control.  The characters find the pr isoners held on the King's 
Island. Each clan holds their prisoners in set of cages. 
When the characters put thei r rescue plan into action, 
the lizardfolk on the island are thrown into further chaos 
when Bogclaw makes his move to seize control of the clans and destroy those who contest him.   The characters must deal with the lizardfolk, the chief 
candidates, Bogclaw, and their rescue operation 
simultaneously. They get some aid from the prisoners. If successful, they can use the lizardfolk's primitive prisoner rafts to transport the kidnap victims out of the 
marsh.  
 While the characters do not encounter Throstulgrael in this adventure, disrupting the contest and the lizardfolk further weakens the clans. This makes them 
less useful to Throstulgrael, and much less effective over 
the long term. This is especially true if Bogclaw survives. The characters can warn th e local inhabitants around 
the marsh about Throstulgrael. 
Adventure Hooks  
The adventurers start at th e Crossing Inn. They may 
meet or arrive there via one or more of the following adventure hooks.  • The inn's proprietor Romsan  Kal personally invites 
the characters to come and look into the kidnappings. They are disrupting travel, and therefore his business. 
• The characters are traveling on the Phlan Path, or 
possibly down the Trank River, and hear about the kidnappings from other travelers. They also hear that Romsan Kal is organizing search parties at the 
Crossing Inn. 
• Optional:  One or more of the characters have 
received word that one of their friends or relatives have disappeared, and have come looking for them. 
They are already held by the lizardfolk. The 
characters hear that Romsan Kal has the best information and is organizing search parties.  
  
 T
th
fa
C
T
R
T
r
le
th
a
 
h
a
b
fr
tr
o
 
h
a
r
ty
 
r
h
th
R
p
d
o
in
s
R
0
T
a
c
m
 
 
 
Par
Dis
The characters 
he missing far m
farms, and that 
Crossi n
The Crossing I n
River, on the s o
Trank River Br
road and the ri v
earn the latest 
he Moonsea. T
are common.  
The inn is o w
human from A m
a retired adven t
bald head. He c
from a mind-fl a
ried to take of f
order should tr a
Romsan has a
halflings from a
as well as tend 
river's edge. T h
ypical tavern o
News of the d
road and river o
hours away, tr a
he area, or pa s
Romsan Kal's b
prompting him 
discover a mea n
or clues about t
nn. A few sear c
success, but no
Romsan needs 
01. Arriv a
The adventure r
already know e
cause. They m a
more likely to u
Not for resale. P e
rt 1: S
sappe a
head to Cross i
mers. They th e
evening, are a m
ng Inn  
nn sits on the e
outh side of th e
idge. The inn h
ver, making it a
news from ac r
Travelers betw e
wned and oper a
mn. He is a lar g
turer. Several j
claims one set c
ayer, and the ot h
fhis head. He i s
avelers becom e
a staff of a doz e
across the lan d
the kitchen, li v
he inn provides 
r roadside inn.
disappearance s
over the past w
avelers are alte r
ss through it a s
business drop p
to not only se a
ns to end the p
the disappeara n
ch parties hav e
 adventurers h
the character s
al at Cr o
rs arrive in ear l
ach other, or j o
ay arrive by bo a
use the Phlan P
ermission granted
Stran g
aranc e
ing Inn and fin
en can investig a
mbushed by li z
east bank of th e
e Phlan Path, n
hosts travelers 
a popular spot t
ross the northe
een Phlan and M
ated by Romsa n
ge, brusque in d
jagged scars c r
came from a l u
her set from a 
s quite capabl e
e unruly.  
en humans an d
s. They serve t
very, barn, and 
the standard s
  
s traveled quic k
week. With Phl a
ring their plan s
s quickly as po s
ped dramatical l
arch for the ca u
roblem. Anyo n
nces is to sen d
e been dispatc h
ave taken up t h
s to be the one s
ossing I n
ly afternoon. T h
oin together in 
at from upstre a
Path.  
 to print or photo
ge 
es 
d out about 
ate the 
zardfolk. 
e Trank 
ext to the from the 
to meet and 
rn shores of 
Melvaunt 
n Kal, a 
dividual and 
risscross his 
ucky escape 
dragon that 
e of keeping 
d stoutheart 
he patrons 
docks at the 
services of a 
kly up the 
an only a few 
s and avoid 
ssible. 
ly, 
use, but 
ne with news 
d word to the 
hed with no 
he task. 
s.   
nn 
hey may 
a common 
am, but are 
copy this documeThe Cro
perched
Trank R i
short p e
large ce
wood fr a
and sle e
overnig h
momen t
 A larg e
from a m
momen t
 "Welc o
Kal. We 
adventu
have a s
  Allow t
h
Romsa n
invited 
thanks 
talk ab o
doing a
pursui n
charac t
party 5 0
donati o
to neg o
he kno w
offers u
scroll o
proof o
 If an y
or rela t
missin g
discus s
followi n
 
"People 
tenday a
from th e
drums b
gone, o f
The far m
one tra v
doors.
nt for personal usssing Inn is a w e
d above a row of 
iver, south of th e
erimeter walls a n
ntral stone chi m
amed octagonal 
eping. It can co m
ht, and a good d
t, there is only a 
e man with a hea
massive table ne
t, he calls you o v
ome to Crossing 
don't get many 
rers, so I'm gue s
seat and introdu c
he characters t
n, as well as e a
any of the cha r
them for comi n
out the disapp e
at the inn. Onc e
ng the missing,
ters to investig
0 gold pieces, s
ons to help fin d
otiate, Romsan 
ws all the adve
up a special ite m
of firebal l, when
f their fates. 
y of the charac t
tive, Romsan c o
g, and he has m
sing the situati o
ng. 
are frightened. T
ago, the first nig h
e south, maybe a
beat throughout 
ften along with s
mers and travele
vels at night and 
 
Dru m
se only.  ell-worn, heavy w
keelboat docks o
e Phlan Path. It i
nd a towering fa c
mney. Upon ente r
common room 
mfortably hold u p
eal more if they 
few staff with e v
avily scarred bal d
ar the front, nex t
ver.  
Inn. I'm host a n
mid-day travele r
ssing you're her e
ce yourselves."  
to introduce th
ach other if ne c
racters, he gre e
ng to help. If t h
earances, he a s
e he knows the
, he does his b e
ate the situati o
some of which 
d the missing. I
stops them, la
enturers’ negot i
m from his pe r
n they return w
ters are pursui n
onfirms that t h
met them in pa s
on, read or par
The disappeara n
ht of the drums. 
as far away as th
the night. Each m
some of their liv e
rs are scared. O n
no one feels sa f
ms in the Mwooden structur e
on the east bank 
s a single level, w
ceted roof aroun d
ring, you find a l a
used for both e a
p to 50 travelers 
squeeze in. At t h
ven fewer travel e
d head watches y
t to a window. A
nd proprietor Ro m
rs, and few prop e
e to see me. Ple a
hemselves to 
cessary. If Ro m
ets them war m
hey don't expli c
sks what they a
re is any inter e
est to convince 
on. He can pay 
was obtained i
f the characte r
ughs, and tells 
iating ploys. H e
rsonal treasure
with the missin g
ng a missing f r
he individual is 
ssing. While 
aphrase the 
nces began abou t
Most say it's c o
e Twilight Mars h
morning, some o
estock if they ha v
nce the drums s t
fe, even behind b
 
Marsh 
7 e 
of the 
with 
d a 
arge, 
ating 
he 
ers.  
you 
After a 
msan 
er 
ase, 
msan 
mly and 
citly 
are 
est in 
the 
the 
in 
rs try 
 them 
e then 
 – a 
g, or 
riend 
t a 
oming 
h. The 
one is 
ve any. 
tart, no 
barred 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   8  "We have a few clues. Some spotted clawed footprints where 
the kidnappings occurred. A few river dwellers claim to have 
heard splashing and movement on the river in the dead of 
night. Most fear that a new monster has moved in, but some 
think it's the lizardfolk in the Twilight Marsh. They're 
troublesome, but some of these disappearances are a long way 
from a marsh, and a few have even happened along the road. 
Not exactly lizardfolk hunting grounds." 
  
Romsan can answer a few questions, but doesn't have a lot of information. By his tally, about 30 people have disappeared along with a couple dozen livestock. 
Romsan knows his list is incomplete. New reports 
trickle in with the occasion al traveler or messenger. 
While there is evidence of skirmishes at the site of some disappearances, no bodies have been found.  
 When the characters are ready to begin their 
investigation, or ask Romsan where to start, they're interrupted by a new arrival.  Taroo, a human farmhand, 
bursts into the inn and runs up to Romsan.  
 
The front door flies open and a young human male dashes in. 
His appearance suggests he's a farmer. He pauses and looks 
around the room before running up to the innkeeper. He's 
clearly upset.  
 "Romsan! The Renons are gone! Come to the farm. You have 
to figure out what happened." 
 Romsan looks pained and says, "I'm not fit to come out of 
retirement for this, but these folks are here to help." He turns 
to you, "This is the best lead you're going to get. Taroo can get 
you downriver to the farm. It's much faster than riding the 
trails." 
  
Romsan offers to stable the characters' mounts for free for the duration of their investigation. He can also provide a few days’ worth of rations and a few minor 
supplies such as blankets or lanterns. Romsan leads the 
characters down to the docks and orders the staff to turn one of the keelboats over to the characters. The keelboat is 20 ft long and about 8 ft. wide. It has a shallow draft, 
primitive sail, and a tiny cabin at the stern. There are 
enough poles for everyone to use to push and guide the vessel.  Taroo guides the characters , and even helps steer the 
boat if needed. He ties his own small boat to trail behind 
the stern of the keelboat. It is midafternoon by the time 
they depart.  Roleplaying Taroo the Farmhand 
Taroo is an honest man in his late 20s who is truly concerned 
for his employer's safety. He's easily impressed if the 
characters tell tall tales or practice flashy magic. However, if the 
characters demonstrate they are ill at home in the wild he 
becomes very uneasy and questions their abilities.  
 Taroo knows the surrounding lands well, but he's never 
entered the Twilight Marsh. He rightly regards it as a highly 
dangerous place. He shares his great fear of the lizardfolk 
making a meal out of him or an yone else that wanders inside. 
 Taroo is not a combatant. He has an Armor Class of 11, 4 
hit points, and a long knife (treat as a dagger; +3 to hit, 1d4+1 
damage) to defend himself if he must.   
A Short Trip 
Downstream 
The farm is about a mile and a half downstream and 
only takes about 30 minutes to reach by boat. It is uneventful as long as the characters can handle the boat. 
If no one save Taroo has any experience with 
negotiating on a river, the jo urney takes double the time 
(one hour) and Taroo is noticeably frustrated with the party. 
 During the trip, the adventurers can take the 
opportunity to question Taroo about the disappearances, his doings, the river, and anything else about the area. Taroo knows the following. 
 
• He's worked at the farm for two years and lives in a 
tiny house on the premises. 
• He's been away from the farm for the past day and a 
half seeing family. He was supposed to get back 
yesterday, but it got dark before he could return, so he stayed at a friendly farm a few miles to the east. No one travels after dark.  
• Upon returning, it was around midday. He found 
the doors to the Renons’ house smashed in and they were gone. There were obvious signs of a struggle. A few pigs and a pair of cows are also 
missing. 
• He quickly searched the farm, found nothing, 
panicked, and headed for the inn for help. He didn't think to check the two neighboring farms until he 
was far upriver. 
• The Renons are a middle aged married human 
couple and have owned thei r farm for many years. 
They're not adventurers, but are quite capable of 
taking care of themselves, which is often required 
given their farm's proximity to the river and marsh.  
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   9 Renon Farm 
The farm is on the east side of  the river. There is a slight 
curve to the river, leaving a wide gravel bar on the east 
side. The characters can beach their boat anywhere 
along the gravel bar. The banks on each side are steep, 
though only about 10 feet tall. Both sides are heavily wooded. If the characters stop to search the gravel bar, see “Gravel Bar.”  
 Pair of very wide, weathered wooden stairs go up the 
embankment. Taroo leads the characters to the smaller one because it leads directly into the Renon Farm. The other is at the end of the  Farmer's Trail which connects 
to other farms and small villages many miles to the east 
of the river. Taroo used it during his trip.   There are three farms at th is end of the trail: the 
Renon Farm, the Alyin Farm, and the Tralio Farm. The 
Renons’ is the largest. Taroo occasionally works and 
socializes at the other two farms, so he knows them almost as well as the Renons. 
What Really Happened 
While there are specific clues listed in the descriptions, you can 
use this overview to help fill in gaps and ad lib clues if needed 
as the characters investigate. 
 Last night, 15 lizardfolk came  upriver, towing four large, 
crude log rafts which they beached at the south end of the 
gravel bar. They attacked Renon farm first, followed by the Alyin 
farm, and last the Tralio farm. In all cases the occupants were 
subdued after a brief skirmish and rounded up along with larger 
livestock such as cattle. A bull at the Tralio farm caused a few 
injuries and property damage.  
 The human captives were bound and thrown on the rafts 
while some of the cattle were tran quilized by a sedating poison 
of the lizardfolk, the majority we re left behind. The lizardfolk 
drummer sounded the return ca dence and the raiding party 
headed downriver befo re dawn. With their pace slowed by the 
unwieldy rafts, the raiding party hopes to return to get the bull 
and cows late tonight after trading rafts and sending the 
victims on to the King's Island. 
Searching Renon Farm 
The trail from the stair lead s through a strip of dense 
woods between the farm in the river. When the characters emerge from the trees, they can see the stout wooden farmhouse. The farmhouse is about 230 feet 
uphill from the stair. The trail passes north of the 
plowed "south field," wraps around the farmhouse and ends in the middle of a small group of buildings. Another trail splits off to the southeast and winds downhill to 
meet the Farmer’s trail. 
 The group of buildings includes the farmhouse , barn , 
chicken coops , well, and Taroo's  farmhand house. The two chicken coops are in a small fenced in area. The 
large barn has a pig sty to the north and green pasture to the east, both of which are fe nced in. Beyond the barn is 
the "north field." All are in good repair or condition. 
 Taroo answers questions as best he can. He can lead them around the farm, but they are free to look around.  
Barn 
The barn is a story and a half  tall stout wood structure. 
Access is through the main doors on the west side, with two additional doors on the north and east sides. The 
north door leads to the pig sty, and the east doors open 
into the pasture.   Clues.  All of the doors are smashed in, showing clear 
impacts from clubs. Taroo realizes several large pigs are 
missing. Smaller pigs remain inside the north side of the 
barn. The two cows and the ox are gone. Clawed footprints cover the dirt floor. A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Investigation) check reveals that the cows 
were led out of the barn and down the Renons’ path 
towards the stair.  
Farmhouse 
The farmhouse is a well-built, low 20 ft. x 40 ft. sturdy 
wooden structure with walls  stained dark green. The 
roof is wood shingles. There are front and back doors, and a pair of small rippled glass windows into each room. It has wood floors and a six-foot high ceiling. 
Inside the front door is a large living space with a 
fireplace. A narrow hallway leads past a small bedroom to the kitchen in the back. There are no interior doors. A large fireplace dominates the kitchen, and it is clear that 
food preparation occurs both inside and at tables behind 
the house.   Clues.  The doors and windows are bashed in and 
broken. There was obviously a struggle throughout the 
house. Furniture is broken and stored items are 
damaged or displaced. Taroo says nothing is missing, even items of value. Ther e are dried blood spots and 
splatters on the floor and walls, though it is not 
extensive.  
 A bloody woodsman's axe wi th a broken handle is 
stuck at an odd angle in the wall next to the front door. A successful DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
reveals that the awkward angle is likely due to avoiding 
the room's low head height. The bed is unmade and the fireplaces are cold.   A broken, crude club is  on the kitchen floor. A 
successful DC 11 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
reveals it is fashioned out of wood common to the 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   10 swamp, but also the riverbanks.  
 The wood floor has deep scratches from clawed feet. A successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check 
reveals that at least one person or creature was dragged 
out the back door and down the Renons’ path to the river.  Treasure: In the bedroom under a floorboard is a 
small hidden chest that takes a successful DC 15 
Intelligence (Investigate) check to find. It contains 10 gp, 22 sp, 52 cp. There is also a silver necklace inlaid with finely cut agates worth 20 gp. 
Other Areas 
 Chicken Coop. The small chicken coop holds a dozen 
chickens that make a fantastic racket if someone steps 
inside. The lizardfolk ignored it, so there are no tracks 
here.   Taroo's House. Taroo's rough wooden house is a 
single 10 ft. x 10 ft. room wi th a small window next to 
the front door. The door is smashed in, but its worn 
table and chairs are undisturbed. The bed is overturned, as though someone looked under it. Nothing is missing.  North Field. The north field has the first green shoots 
of the spring grain planting. An  ox-drawn plow sits at the 
south edge of the field, near the barn.   South Field.  The south field shows the first shoots of 
a variety of vegetables. Th ree clear sets of clawed 
footprints lead from the compound through the field and 
towards the Alyin's farm to the south.   Well.  The well is shallow and stone lined. A dozen 
battered wood buckets are stacked around the well next 
to a ragged rope.  
Alyin Farm 
If the characters investig ate the Alyins’ farm, they 
discover the couple (Walos and Jinns) has gone missing. 
Taroo describes them as young adult humans who 
inherited their farm and moved in only a few months 
ago. They don't really know the area. The farm has an old small farmhouse similar to the Renons’ but in poorer condition. It likewise has been broken into and shows 
signs of a struggle. However, there are no signs of 
anyone being dragged away (the Alyins were actually carried).   A search turns up a brok en wooden drumstick among 
the stuff on the floor with a successful DC 15 
Intelligence (investigation) check. Taroo can confirm it isn't the Alyins. The Alyins’ field is partially planted – Taroo says they're late this year due to illness. The 
house has no valuables in it. The decayed wood barn  is wide open, and an ox was obviously led away down the 
path to the road and river.   
Tralio Farm 
If the characters investigate the Tralios’ farm, they see a number of cattle inside and outside of a large pasture. Part of the pasture’s wood fe nce along the trail from the 
road to the house is down. A big bull remains inside the 
fence, and watches anyone who walks by. If a character 
enter the pasture (or attack),  the bull charges the first 
one in. Use the giant goat statistics; the animal can be 
calmed down with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Animal 
Handling) check. A successful DC 12 Wisdom 
(Perception) check reveals that the bull’s horns are caked with blood. There appears to be three small blowgun darts stuck in the bu ll's side (from a failed 
tranquilizing attempt). A trail of blood leads back to the 
Farmer's Trail and all the way to the river. The lizardfolk gave up for now, but plan to come back tonight. 
 The Tralios (Hilloo and Gerona) are also gone, and 
their small house and barn broken into, all of which are similar to the Renons. Taroo says the Tralios regularly dealt in livestock with the local farmers. He watched 
their farm when they traveled, or helped with the 
livestock.  
The Gravel Bar 
Characters searching the gravel bar might discover 
(with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check) that something large was beached here. They might also notice (with a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check) muddy footprints and a small trail of 
blood from the stairs to the Farmer's Trail (leading back 
to the Tralio farm).   Anyone searching the water's edge soon finds a  gourd 
canteen wedged between two large rocks. It is empty but 
the inside has a nasty odor to it. A successful DC 15 
Wisdom (Medicine) check reveals that it might have held some type of poison. It was, in fact, dropped by one of the lizardfolk while struggling to get the livestock aboard 
a raft.  
Moving On 
By now, the characters should realize all the clues point 
towards the lizardfolk, and head towards the marsh. The characters might deduce that the lizardfolk might 
return tonight to the Tralio farm. Otherwise, they likely 
set off for the marsh. You should determine how long 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   11 the investigation has taken so far, and how much time 
remains before sunset. The characters might opt to stay at a farm and leave at dawn or may head out no matter 
what the time and camp near or in the marsh. At dusk, 
the drums start up and run through the night. See “The Drums” and “Dusk-Dusk Ambush.”  Taroo has absolutely no interest in pursuing the 
kidnappers into the marsh. He says he'll stay at the 
farms to tend to the remaining animals and lock up the buildings. He'll go back upriver for the night.  A steady cold rain starts in the late afternoon, 
continues overnight and stops just after dawn the next 
morning. Along the river, the characters occasionally discover the corpse of a pig or cow that didn't make it, 
but never any people.  
Travel to the Marsh 
Once the party embarks to head from the farms to the marsh, 
have them choose activities they might be engaged in while 
traveling. Each character should choose one of the activities 
listed below, in addition to helping guide the keelboat with 
poles. See Chapter 8: Adventuring in the basic rules or the 
Player’s Handbook for more information. 
• Keep a lookout: Characters doing this are able to use their 
passive Wisdom (Perception) scores to keep an eye out for 
threats.  
• Navigate: Characters can find the quickest path 
downstream. If a character succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Survival) check, the travel time is reduced to 3/4 of its 
normal time. 
• Map the area: This could be vital if the characters become 
separated or leave the immediate area of the river. Without 
a map, it is possible the characters could become lost.  
• Track: While traveling on land or by water, a character could 
continue to track the lizardfolk. A successful DC 12 
Wisdom (Survival) check made every six hours keeps them 
on track with the lizardfolk, eventually leading back to 
Ringcurrent Islands and the Is land of the Lizard King. 
 
Travel Time and Distance. The edge of the Twilight 
Marsh is about seven and a half miles downstream. The Trank River is relatively easy to navigate, with no 
whitewater and few rapids. Some sections are deeper 
than others.   If the characters use the keelboat, the first five miles takes about two hours. For the last two miles, the 
current slows significantly, and the river seems to take 
forever to traverse. It takes about two hours to reach the 
northern edge.   If the characters try to go overland, it takes about 20 
hours by foot due to the rugged landscape and trails. If 
the characters somehow brought horses, it cuts the time to 15 hours. However, the horses are next to useless beyond the borders of the swamp. Taroo can point this out. 
The Drums 
The lizardfolk drums are used for communication and 
intimidation. Due to the extraordinary nature of Throstulgrael's 
contest, they are using their drums continuously each night. 
Certain patterns convey different messages.  
 Lizardfolk who hear the drums are emboldened by them. 
Each lizardfolk gains advantage on one attack or saving throw 
during combat. 
 The drums get louder the closer the characters are to the 
marsh. They also notice there are occasionally quieter drums 
from other directions. A successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) 
check reveals that, far from being random drumming, the boom 
drums are a means of communicating amongst the lizardfolk 
and that the drums signal the start and end of hunting each 
night as well as the coming and going of raiding parties.  
 
• Start:  Four distinct thundering beats echoing across the 
marsh and surrounding lands. Locals panic and barricade 
themselves indoors when it starts.  
• Drumroll:  The thunderdrums keep up a continuous low 
rumbling roll accented by loud er staccato patterns and the 
occasional thundering boom.   
• End: At sunrise, the drums end with three low booms and 
two rapid thundering shots. 
 
Playing up the tribal, menacing nature of the drums during the 
trek through the swamp can do a lot to heighten tension and 
create great atmosphere.  
Dusk-Dusk Ambush 
The lizardfolk set their sights on the party after sunset. 
Canny and observant parties might be alerted to their 
presence before they strike. Six lizardfolk  move in on 
the party in the evening. Adapt the ambush to the 
characters' specific circumstances. The likely scenarios are:  • The characters stay at Tralios' farm to ambush or 
follow the lizardfolk returning for the livestock.  
• The characters stay at one of the other farms for the 
night and are discovered by lizardfolk scouts. 
• The characters head downriver but travel or camp 
in or near the boat overnight.  
• The characters make it in to the marsh where they 
travel or camp overnight. 
 
If the characters do take care to conceal themselves, they must avoid detection by two lizardfolk  scouts. The 
scouts use Dexterity (Stealth ) to sneak into the area 
sometime after sunset. If they  manage to avoid detection 
and succeed in spotting the characters, they withdraw 
and return with the rest of the raiders. If the scouts are killed, the rest of the lizardfolk come looking for them an 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   12 hour later. Should the characters spot the scouts, they 
have advantage to spot the rest when they arrive. 
Twilight Marsh Lizardfolk Raiders 
Raiders out to capture quarry carry a net or blowgun in addition 
to the attacks listed in the stat block. 
 
Net. Melee Weapon Attack:  +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or 
one Small target. Hit: target is restrain ed and falls prone. 
 
Blowgun.  Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 30 ft./60 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 1 piercing damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or suffer 1d4 
poison damage and become poisoned for one hour. 
Nighttime Ambush 
The Dusk-Dusk's main goal is to subdue the 
characters.  If they are clearly overmatched or lose half 
their number, the lizardfolk retreat into the river or darkness. They attack after su nset, at a time you wish to 
enhance the characters' circumstances. 
 Light. None due to the rain, aside from the light 
sources the characters have. It could be twilight if the attack occurs just after su nset or before dawn. The 
lizardfolk carry torches, bu t not during the ambush. 
 Sound. The drums continue to boom through the 
night, bolstering the lizardfolk; see “The Drums.”  Weather. A heavy downpour makes surfaces slicker 
or muddier (treat as difficult  terrain) and further reduces 
visibility. Dexterity (Stealth) checks have advantage.   
Adjusting the Encounter 
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat 
encounter. These are not cumulative. 
• Very weak party or weak party:  remove one lizardfolk 
• Strong party:  add one lizardfolk 
• Very strong party:  add two lizardfolk 
Sequence of Events 
The lizardfolk plans are as follows. 
  • Attack from multiple directions, including surprise 
attacks from the water. 
• Characters subdued in the attack are pulled to and 
into the river. They are hauled downstream to a 
hidden raft. Captives are seated on the uneven log 
raft deck, hands and feet tied with ropes, as well as tied to the logs themselves. The lizardfolk head for the swamp before dawn. 
• The lizardfolk retreat to and into the river if they 
lose more than half their number. Land Tactics 
If the ambush takes place on land away from the water, 
the lizardfolk leave a raft at the water's edge where they 
can return to it quickly, but keep it out of sight. They split up into pairs, except for the four tasked with kidnapping. They try to draw the target away from the 
others. They sneak up as cl ose as they can and then 
launch their ambush from all directions. If the characters are outside, the lizardfolk fire blowgun darts coated with tranquilizer po ison. The kidnappers rush 
their target, trying to throw a net over their victim. If the 
characters are in a building, the lizardfolk hammer at the doors with wooden club s and fire through open 
windows.  
Water Tactics 
If the ambush occurs on the boat, river, or riverbank, the lizard folk use the water to maximum advantage. They leave the raft as close as they can downstream out of 
sight. They swim underwater to surround the boat or be 
parallel to the bank, as limited by water depth. They suddenly break the surface to start the ambush, immediately firing their blowguns at any visible target. 
The four kidnappers attempt to climb on the boat, or 
rush their target from the darkness if on land.  
Treasure 
The lizardfolk carry clubs, blowguns, poisoned darts, crude nets, and a few personal but otherwise valueless items. There is a half-full gourd of the lizardfolk tranquilizing poison; enough for six more doses. Their 
half-barrel sized signaling drum and drumsticks are on 
the log raft. 
Development 
If the lizardfolk succeed in ca pturing one or more of the 
adventurers, the fight turns into a pursuit. It might 
include a chase between th e raft and the keelboat, 
neither of which are particularly fast or maneuverable. The lizardfolk direct the raft while swimming. If they get 
away, they head for the Lizard King's Island, which is 
several hours away. Allow players to be creative in how they try to track down and rescue captured comrades.   If the lizardfolk are defeated, the survivors flee 
downriver to return to the Dusk-Dusk village. Lizardfolk 
who are captured resist giving information for a short time, before a realistic thre at makes them talk (or a 
successful DC 15 Charisma (Intimidation) check). They 
do not speak Common.  
 They say their clan leaders ordered them to kidnap 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   13 people and livestock to please Throstulgrael and 
become king of the Twilight Marsh lizardfolk clans. If the characters asked for loca tions, they receive vague 
directions to the center of the marsh. If the characters 
try to bribe or force them to lead them to the kidnap victims, the lizardfolk willingly leads them into the swamp. They deliver them into Dusk-Dusk territory, 
looking for an ambush by their clan's patrols. 
  
 T
li
T
O
t
E
in
C
H
•
•
•
•
S
T
m
v
D
h
o
T
is
 
c
 
•
•
•
P
Twi
The characters 
izardfolk abdu c
Traveling in 
Once the party m
hem choose acti
Each character s h
n addition to hel
Chapter 8: Adven
Handbook for m o
• Keep a looko u
passive Wisd
threats.  
• Navigate: Ch
through the m
Wisdom (Su r
of its normal 
• Map the are a
unconscious ,
possible the c
• Track: While t
continue to t r
Wisdom (Su r
on track with 
Ringcurrent I
Searc h
The Trank Riv e
multitude of sh a
vegetation. Fo g
During the day ,
high tree branc
of the light und e
Travel during t h
s certain to dr a
Searching so
challenging, bu
• Periodic s u
Perceptio n
items dro p
direction d
• The urgen c
less caref u
may disco v
rushing ar o
long gone b
• The chara c
Not for resale. P e
Part 2
iligh t
head into the m
ctors and resc u
the Marsh 
make it to the edg
vities they migh t
hould choose on e
ping guide the k e
turing in the ba s
ore information. 
ut: Characters d o
om (Perception)
aracters can hel p
marsh. If a chara
rvival) check, the
time. 
a: This could be v
, or taken by the 
characters could 
traveling on lan d
rack the lizardfol
rvival) check ma d
the lizardfolk, e v
slands and the I s
hing th
er spreads out a
allow islands, w
g is common in 
, the marsh liv e
hes create a d e
erneath as di m
he day is dang e
aw an attack. S
mething the si z
t the characte r
uccessful DC 1
n checks turn u
ped by the cap
deeper in the s w
cy of the conte s
ul and stealthy t
ver fresh footp r
ound in the dis
by the time th e
cters may dete c
ermission granted
: Into
t Mar s
marsh to confr
ue the missing 
e of Twilight Ma
t be engaged in w
e of the activitie s
eelboat with pol e
sic rules or the Pl
oing this are abl e
 scores to keep a
p Taroo find the q
cter succeeds o n
travel time is re d
vital if Taroo is ki
lizard folk. With o
become lost.  
d or by water, a c
k. A successful D
de every six hour
ventually leadin g
sland of the Liza
e Mar s
and flows bet w
wetlands, and d
the morning h
es up to its na m
ense canopy, m
m as an evenin g
erous, but trav e
See “Marsh Da n
ze of the swa m
rs have a num b
3 Perception a
p trinkets, clot h
tives, and sug g
wamp. 
st has made th e
than usual. Th e
rints, or see liz a
tance, only to f
y catch up. 
ct a pair of liza r
 to print or photo
 
sh 
ont the 
farmers. 
rsh, have 
while traveling. 
s listed below, 
es. See 
layer’s 
e to use their 
an eye out for 
quickest path 
n a DC 15 
duced to 3/4 
lled, rendered 
out a map, it is 
haracter could 
DC 12 
s keeps them 
 back to 
rd King.  
sh 
ween the 
dense 
hourAs. 
me, as the 
making much 
g's twilight. 
eling at night 
ngers.” 
mp is 
ber of leads.  
and passive 
hes, or other 
gest a 
e lizardfolk 
e characters 
ardfolk 
find them 
rdfolk 
copy this documesco
ent
cro
Mu
Ste
cap
• Se
dis
“Th
• At 
tha
cha
hea
kid
oth
Mar
Typica l
harder challe
n
imposs Terr
a
terrain .
wetlan d
unexp e
Some a
haulin g
 Ligh t
throug h
Direct s
areas, t
oasis. L
thems e
 Wea t
sky slo w
stays l o
especi a
not im p
one als
 Crea
animal s
these f o
charac t
harmleabove. 
G
comm o
Gian
The m o
nt for personal usouts, or a patr o
ter the swamp 
oss into Rootw
uckmarsh terri
ealthy charact e
pture and que s
everal hours in t
scover lizardfo l
he Prisoner R a
night, the thu n
at leads straig h
aracters have n
ar the lesser d r
dnapping grou p
her directions.
sh Dang e
l marsh dange r
to deal with at 
nging and dang
sible. 
ain. The vast m
. Travel is slo w
ds thick with w
ected deep und e
areas require w
g the keelboat a
t. The twilight- l
hout the day, a n
sunlight does b
temporarily pi e
Lizardfolk use s
elves on cold d a
ther. The rain 
wly clears. Th e
ow during the d
ally for soakin g
possible to ligh
o attracts atte n
tures.  The ma
s, and fish. Yo u
or additional a m
ters with swar m
ess) bugs, or sn
Giant toads a n
on. 
nt Toads
ost dangerous c
Dru m
se only.  ol may find the m
in Dus k-Dusk 
water territory t o
tory two miles 
ers might follo w
stion them abo u
to the search, t
lk escorting a p
aft.” 
ndering drums 
ht to the Ringc u
n't noticed alre a
rums of the ot h
ps, but always f
ers 
r are a consta n
 night. They s h
erous, but not 
majority of the m
wed by tangles o
water grasses, m
erwater holes, 
walking throug h
a short distanc e
like light is tre a
nd darker duri n
break through t
ercing the gloo m
some of these a
ays. 
ends in the ea r
e temperature i
day. It is difficu
g wet character
ht a fire in the m
ntion. 
rsh has a mult i
u should feel fr e
mbience, such 
ms of biting (b u
akes dropping 
nd other monst e
 
creatures the c
ms in the Mm. The charac t
territory, but c
o the south, or 
into the swa m
w the patrol, o r
ut the kidnapp i
he adventurer s
prisoner raft. S
serve as a bea c
urrent Islands. 
ady, they can a l
her clans and 
far in the dista n
nt threat, but m u
hould make tra v
completely 
marsh is diffic u
of tree roots, 
muddy bogs, 
and undergro w
h the water, or 
e overland. 
ated as dim lig h
ng rainstorms. 
the canopy in s
m with a brigh t
areas to sun 
rly morning, a n
is cool overnig h
lt to stay war m
rs. It is difficult 
marsh, though a
itude of insect s
ee to use any o
as annoying t h
ut otherwise 
into the boat f r
ers are less 
characters enc o
Marsh 
14 ters 
can 
enter 
mp. 
r 
ings.  
s 
ee 
con 
If the 
lso 
nce in 
uch 
vel 
ult 
wth. 
ht 
 
some 
t 
nd the 
ht and 
m, 
but 
a large 
s, 
of 
he 
rom 
ounter 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   15 are two giant toads . About an hour into the marsh, the 
characters pass through a wetland with a few giant toads hidden in the tall grass. A variation of this 
encounter can be used almost anywhere in the marsh, 
day or night, though it should only occur once.  
 
You are passing through a wetland with tall, wide, and dense 
blades of greenish brown grass bordering labyrinthine 
waterways. The wall-like growths make it appear as though the 
boat is traveling watery hallways. Crossings occur frequently, 
opening suddenly to one or both sides. A slow current guides 
your way. 
 Standing on the boat, characters six feet in height can barely 
see over the tops of the grasses, which wave and rustle in a 
strong, breeze.  The plants are growing in the shallower areas, 
and the channels you are using are only a few feet deep.  
 
The characters might dete ct the hidden toads (roll 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks for the toads) as they pass by. 
Characters that succeed are not surprised when the 
toads attack, realizing something is out there.   The first toad to strike sits in the thick grass. It shoots its tongue out to grab one of the characters on the boat, 
which seems to suddenly get yanked into the grass and 
disappear from view. The DM should play up the suddenness of the shocking disappearance and the realization that they are being dragged through the grass 
to some kind of hidden mons ter. The current continues 
to push the boat along, even if the characters stop guiding it. A second toad sits at the next crossing, ready to pick off another character.  
Adjusting the Encounter 
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat 
encounter. These are not cumulative. 
• Very weak party: remove one giant toad; the remaining 
giant toad has 27 hit points 
• Weak party:  each giant toad has 27 hit points 
• Strong party:  add one giant toad 
• Very strong party:  add one giant toad; each giant toad has 
51 hit points 
Development 
If a toad grabs and swallows a character, it hops into a 
waterway and jumps away as fast as possible. Toads that take more than half damage also flee. 
Treasure 
The toads don’t carry treasure, but a quick search in the shallow waters around the ambush site turns up 
skeletons of less fortunate ha lfling travelers, along with their ruined weapons, packs, and purses with a total of 
53 gp, 39 sp, and 24 cp.  
The Prisoner Raft 
About four hours into the swamp, the characters see through the trees, a group of three  lizardfolk and one 
lizardfolk shaman  in the distance guiding a prisoner  
raft. The characters have not been detected and won't be 
unless they draw attention to themselves. This 
encounter can occur at any time . At night, the lizardfolk 
use torches to light the way.   
A flurry of movement catches yo ur attention. In the distance 
through a thick stand of old tr ees, you see several humanoid 
shapes, most likely lizardfolk, guiding a long raft. The raft 
appears to carry more humanoids that are sitting on the raft's 
surface, but it is difficult to make out who or what they might 
be. The guides are waist deep in water in front, behind, and 
next to the raft. They don't appear to have noticed you.  
 
It shouldn't take long for the characters to realize that the raft is carrying prisoners. The lizardfolk are taking 
the captives to the Lizard King's Island, which is still 
about an hour away. Eight escort the raft, while two others scout around for dangers and the other clans. The lizardfolk are from the clan whose territory the 
characters are passing through, most likely the 
Rootwater clan. If they are in Muckmarsh territory, the 
lizardfolk are armed.   The characters have several options:  
 Follow.  If the characters follow the raft, they must 
make Dexterity (Stealth) checks every 15 minutes, or four times before reaching the Ringcurrent Islands. If 
the characters are successful, they reach the outer 
Ringcurrent Islands. If they are detected, the lizardfolk 
push the raft faster while the scouts and two others break away to engage the characters.   Attack and Rescue.  If the characters attack the 
lizardfolk, they have about 10 minutes to plan before 
they are out of sight. The characters may make Dexterity (Stealth) checks to position  themselves for an ambush. 
The lizardfolk attempt to flee if they detect the 
characters. The scouts and two others engage the 
characters. If the adventurers succeed in ambushing the raft, all of the lizardfolk engage and none flee the confrontation no matter the outcome. If the lizardfolk 
beat back the attack, they ru sh their cargo to the King's 
Island.   If the characters are successful, they are left with a 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   16 raft full of kidnap victims. There are three male humans, 
two female humans, three female halflings, and two male dwarves. If the characters manage to free the 
victims during the fight, the dwarves, two humans and a 
halfling join the battle (use the commoner statistics). 
 All of them have minor injuries from their kidnapping, but nothing debilitating. They tell the adventurers 
everything they can, filling in some gaps about what is 
going on. See “Rolk Talks” for more information and roleplaying notes.   The victims can use the raft  to get out of the marsh. 
They are appreciative of weapons, but make do with 
improvised clubs for defense. They don't require an escort. The way is dangerous, so it is possible that the 
characters might try to diss uade them. The victims are 
reluctant, but might agree to  hiding somewhere nearby 
until the adventurers returned to take them out.  Negotiation. Though unlikely, the characters might try 
to negotiate with the lizardfol k or intimidate them into 
giving up their prizes. If the characters clearly have the 
upper hand, intimidation might scare the lizardfolk into fleeing for their lives. If the characters try to simply negotiate, they have made a poor choice. The lizardfolk 
see them as highly desirable targets and waste no time 
to try to capture at least one of the characters. See “Attack and Rescue,” above. 
Rolk Talks 
Rolk is a talkative dwarf mercha nt who is exceedingly grateful 
for his rescue. The dwarves (Rolk and Nik) were taken three 
days ago while traveling on the Phlan Path. The rest come from 
surrounding farms. Rolk understands a bit of Draconic and can 
relay what he has surmised is going on. 
 
• Three lizardfolk clans are having some sort of contest 
whereby the winner is the clan with the most captives. It 
has been going on since the drums began a tenday ago, 
and appears to end in a few nights.  
• Rolk doesn't know what the prize is or anything about a 
dragon. 
• Most everyone believed there was only one lizardfolk clan, 
not three. He knows their names. 
• The drums call out the leading clan somehow.  
• Before the contest, someth ing powerful attacked the 
lizardfolk villages and killed a powerful lizard king called 
Scalecrusher. 
• The lizardfolk constantly compla in that they can't eat any of 
their victims until the contest is over. 
• The lizardfolk have been pushing them steadily in the same 
direction for days. Rolk assumes it leads to their ultimate 
destination and thinks it translates as the Island of the 
Lizard King in the Ringcurrent Islands.  
Treasure 
The lizardfolk aren't carrying valuables, just clubs, blow guns, and a dozen poisoned darts. 
Adjusting the Encounter 
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat 
encounter. These are not cumulative. 
• Very weak party or weak party:  remove one lizardfolk 
• Strong party:  add one lizardfolk 
• Very strong party:  add two lizardfolk 
 
The Ringcurrent Islands 
The Ringcurrent Islands are named for the source and 
shape of their ring-like a rrangement. A large, slow 
moving circular eddy formed  along one of the Twilight 
Marsh's deeper water channels , and the circular motion 
shaped a number of islands.  The Muckmarsh tribe lives 
on and around the islands, which surround the King's 
Island.  
Outer Islands 
Throstulgrael damaged or destroyed half of the Muckmarsh huts. About 40 survivors have temporarily 
abandoned the north and west islands and retreated to 
the best remaining huts to the south. The characters arrive at the abandoned islands.  
Ahead you see a series of wooded islands in an expanse of 
muddy water. A slow current seems to revolve around them 
like a massive eddy. Waterbound trees continue the canopy 
over the water. There is an irregular line of crude wood huts 
built partially in the water along each island's bank. Many are 
damaged or knocked over and look abandoned.  
  At night, the drums are tremendously loud and clearly located somewhere in the middle of the islands. The characters gain advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks 
when the drums overwhelm the ambient sound. 
 Sharp eyed characters migh t pick out details of the 
damaged huts from afar. Read or paraphrase the following as they approach the islands. 
 
   
 
   
Up close, it is obvious that some of the huts have been 
physically knocked over or crushed, with logs snapped like 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   17 twigs. However, many more of them are oddly destroyed, and 
the remains show signs of being dissolved or rotting away.  
 Further inland, you see several a pair of ragged winged 
shapes hanging like decorations high in the tree branches. The 
silhouette of a large and powerful lizardfolk appears from 
behind the trees. It jumps high in the air, grabs one decoration 
in each hand and rips them from their ropes. It lands, throws 
them to the ground, and stomps them flat. The lizardfolk 
strides into the gloom. 
 
The young lizardfolk king, Bogclaw, is ripping down dragon effigies  hung by surviving clan members in 
honor of Throstulgrael. He is too far away for most 
character actions, but if they try a quick long range attack, call attention to them selves, or carry a bright 
light source at night, he at tempts to disappear into the 
vegetation. Seeing Bogclaw for the first time, someone 
knowledgeable about lizardfolk might realize they are seeing a variation called a lizard king that is more powerful and smarter than the average lizardfolk. 
 The islands show the direct results from 
Throstulgrael's attack. If the characters land and investigate the area, they find no other living lizardfolk. They discover  lizardfolk bodies in the rubble of some of 
the ruined huts. A successful DC 12 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check suggests that the bodies and huts 
show signs of being burned partially away by a very powerful acid. Searching the huts reveals basic 
weapons, shields, and other items common to a 
primitive village. If the characters look for the ruined decorations, they discover they appear to be crude 
effigies of a dragon.  
 The island is long, but only a hundred feet or so 
across. On the other shore, th ey find another series of 
destroyed huts. Beyond the huts, they can see the King's Island in the center of the enormous eddy. If the party 
succeeds at a group DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check 
they can follow Bogclaw to the Island of the Lizard King before losing his trail in the water. 
Bogclaw 
Bogclaw is a young and strong lizardfolk king, now the rightful 
king of the clans. He secretly escaped death, though he had to 
hide and treat his wounds for a fe w days. He plans to take back 
control by ruining the contest. He can't stand Throstulgrael and 
won't allow the clans to work for the creature or worship it. 
Bogclaw is destroying the honor effigies out of frustration and 
to remind the lizardfolk who is in charge, once he reveals 
himself.  
   Bogclaw eventually notices the characters, hides, and 
watches them from the deep shadows or water. He flees into 
the water if discovered. Bogclaw hides and waits to take advantage of any distraction the characters might give to 
disrupt the contest.  
Island of the Lizard King 
When the characters first see the island, read or 
paraphrase the following. 
 
In the center of a massive, slowly swirling eddy is a long island 
that appears to be taller and larger at one end. From your 
vantage point, you can see two distinct encampments of 
lizardfolk.  Each has a ragged banner with different markings 
on them. You can just see the top of a third banner hidden 
behind a cluster of six massive drums in the center of the 
island. Destroyed wooden huts and crude fortifications sit on a 
low mound around the drums, and down into the water.   
 Two large wooden cages lashed together from tree limbs 
dominate each encampment. One appears to contain 
humanoids. Animal-like sounds from the other ones imply 
they hold livestock. Each cage has tall poles with winged 
decorations similar to those on the outer island.  
 About a dozen lizardfolk roam each encampment. Some are 
guarding the cages, while others work on large rafts at the 
water's edge. The lizardfolk seem more interested in keeping 
an eye on the other groups than watching for other dangers. 
 
If the characters arrive at night, the marsh thunderdrums boom away, cove ring most sounds in the 
area and making speech diffi cult on the island. The 
drums pulse with a magical blue energy  each time they 
are struck, a side effect of the minor enchantment that drastically raises the volume. It lights the whole island.   Each clan has their own encampment on each arm of 
the Y-like island. The King's huts, and those of his 
lieutenants and bodyguards are mounds of wood and debris. In the center of the island stands a pike with Scalecrusher's half-dissolved  skull on it. It's 
Throstulgrael's reminder of the fate of those who 
oppose him.  The mound, bordered by the drums, is something of a no-man's land between the clans. The clans only deliver 
captives to their own encampment. Deliveries are 
guarded to keep the other clan s from stealing their catch 
enroute.   The Muckmarsh are on the northeast arm, the 
Rootwater are on the southeast, and the Dusk-Dusk are 
due west. Each group has ten lizardfolk, plus an average lizardfolk turned-clan leader who would be king. There are three or four rafts beached on at each camp. The 
Muckmarsh clan is armed with primitive swords, 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   18 shields, and javelins. Only the clan leaders and shaman 
of the other two clans are so equipped.   The Muckmarsh cages hold 18 humans and 
strongheart (stout) halflings, plus about 25 various 
livestock. The Dusk-Dusk have 12 humans and wood elves, along with 32 mostly large livestock. The Rootwater hold 10 strongheart halflings and shield 
(mountain) dwarves, along with 14 assorted livestock. 
 The characters can take thei r time planning their next 
move. Show them the King's  Island map. They might 
wait for darkness or dawn, depending on their ideas. 
The distance between the cages make rescuing all three 
groups of victims challenging. Saving the livestock is likely impossible due to the lack of enough rafts and time. However, the characters  have some circumstances 
on their side, though they won't realize it at first. 
 
• The clans do not help each other defend the other's 
captives. 
• Once the captives are let loose, about half of them 
fight the lizardfolk (as commoners ) while the 
others run for the rafts. The adventurers' force grows significantly with each rescue. The DM 
should handle all but the characters' actions 
cinematically.  
• If the characters defeat Bogclaw, the rest of the 
lizardfolk flee, abandoning the island.  
• The drummers continue until Bogclaw appears, or 
they are attacked. 
Treasure 
The Muckmarsh tribe has a stash of treasure in stolen old saddlebags hidden away in the hut of the old leader, Scalecrusher. If they search the Muckmarsh’s huts, they can find the treasure. It consists of 6 pp, 196 gp, an 
agate worth 100 gp, and a jar of 
Keoghtom’s ointment 
with 3 doses remaining.   
Bogclaw’s Coup 
Immediately after the adventurers disrupt the proceedings, Bogclaw emerges from the water and 
swiftly kills  the Muckmarsh would-be leader, preferably 
in sight of the characte rs. The Muckmarsh guards 
immediately follow his orders.  
 Bogclaw leads them against the next clan (the one 
none or the least number of characters are fighting). Some fight back, while others switch sides. Afterwards, they turn to the last clan. If the characters are quick, it is 
possible they can free the capt ives while the infighting is 
going on.   Only after all of the surviving lizardfolk are under 
Bogclaw's control does he turn and attack the characters. He defends hims elf if they engage him 
directly. The lizardfolk pursue the characters to the edge 
of the Ringcurrent Islands, then Bogclaw turns them back to stabilize his control. Most of the valuable captives are gone, which suits him fine. 
Dealing with the Lizardfolk 
At this point, the adventurers have a variety of ways that they can approach the situation.  
 
• Dive in and start thrashing the lizardfolk in 
hopes of driving them off.  This is the most 
dangerous course of action; feel free to alter the 
fight as you see fit. The tribes will fight amongst 
themselves, but members of each tribe will attempt to defeat the party in hopes of winning glory for the tribe 
• Negotiation with the tribes.  Rolk can assist if no 
one speaks Draconic. Award the party for clever role playing, possibly by making the final battle easier as the tribes ally against the Muckmarsh.  
• Stealth and assassination.  By sneaking up to free 
captives and eliminate key guards the party could garner a decent sized fighting force and throw the lizardfolk in to disarray.  
• Something else the party thinks up.  Roll with 
their ideas if they seem plausible.  
 Whatever the outcome, the party should face Bogclaw 
and some of his tribesmen. Narrate the battle raging 
around them until Bogclaw is defeated or the party falls.  Unless the party decides to ru sh headlong in to battle, 
they should face Bogclaw (use lizard king  statistics), a 
lizardfolk shaman , and two  lizardfolk .  
Adjusting the Encounter 
Here are recommendations for adjusting this combat 
encounter. These are not cumulative. 
• Very weak party: remove the shaman and one lizardfolk 
• Weak party:  remove the shaman and add one lizardfolk 
• Strong party:  Bogclaw has 102 hit points 
• Very strong party:  Bogclaw has 102 hit points; add one 
lizardfolk 
   
Escape and Aftermath 
With the loss of the clan leaders and possibly Bogclaw, 
the remaining lizardfolk don't have the will or the 
numbers to reasonably reca pture the escapees. The 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   19 large group scares most marsh predators away. It takes 
many hours, but the characters eventually escort the rafts out of the marsh and up the river. 
 The characters should end with the knowledge that a 
dragon is stirring up troubl e in the marsh. They might 
surmise that the destruction of the contest and so many 
lizardfolk over the past tw o weeks that the remainder 
won't pose much of a threat for a while. A few captives 
speak some Draconic and inform the characters that Throstulgrael was due to retu rn in the coming days to 
pick the clan leader and feast on all of the captives. They 
also relay Rolk's information if the characters missed it 
somehow.  Now, Throstulgrael might take its wrath out on the lizardfolk.   The characters are fully paid their gold and spell scroll 
upon returning to the Crossing Inn with some of the 
captives.  
Rewards 
Make sure note their rewards on their adventure logsheets. Give your name and DCI number (if 
applicable) so players can record who ran the session. 
Experience 
Total up all combat experience  earned for defeated 
foes, and divide by the number of characters present in 
the combat. For non-combat experience , the rewards 
are listed per character. Give all characters in the party non-combat experience awards  unless otherwise noted. 
Combat Awards 
Name of Foe   XP per Foe 
Lizardfolk king   1100 Lizardfolk shaman   450 Giant toad   200 Crocodile    100 L i z a r d f o l k     1 0 0  
Non-Combat Awards 
Task or Accomplishment  XP per Character Investigating the farms  75 Saving the prisoners on the raft 50 Saving the prisoners on the island 50 Negotiating with the lizardfolk  50 
 
The minimum  total award for each character 
participating in this adventure is 600 experience  
points . 
The maximum  total award for each character 
participating in this adventure is 750 experience  points . 
Treasure 
The characters receive the following treasure, divided 
up amongst the party. Characters should attempt to 
divide treasure evenly whenever possible. Gold piece values listed for sellable gear are calculated at their selling price, not their purchase price. 
 Consumable magic items  should be divided up 
however the group sees fit. If  more than one character is 
interested in a specific consumable magic item, the DM can determine who gets it randomly should the group be 
unable to decide. 
 Permanent magic items are divided according to a 
system. See the sidebar if the adventure awards permanent magic items. 
Treasure Awards 
Item Name    GP Value 
Coins from the Renons’ farm   12 Necklace from the Renons’ farm  20 Halfling coinpurses    57 Scalecrusher’s hidden treasure  256 R o l k ’ s  r e w a r d     1 0 0  R o m s a n ’ s  r e w a r d     5 0  
Keoghtom’s Ointment 
Wondrous item, uncommon  
This rose-colored glass jar contains 3 doses of the 
ointment. Once the last dose is used, the certificate is void and can be removed from your magic item list. A 
description of this item can be found in the D&D basic 
rules. 
Spell Scroll: Fireball 
Scroll, uncommon 
This spell scroll contains a single fireball spell. A 
description of spell scrolls can be found in the basic 
rules or Dungeon Master’s Guide.   
 
 
   
 
 
Permanent Magic Item Distribution 
D&D Adventurers League has a system in place to determine 
who is awarded permanent magic items at the end of a session. 
Each character’s logsheet contains a column to record 
 p
•
•
R
A
p
 
E
r
a
tr
D
E
c
D
Y
th
 
   
 permanent magi c
• If all the play e
possession o
the item. 
• In the event t
interest in p o
character tha
items gets th
permanent m
the item’s o w
Renown 
All faction me m
participating in 
Emerald Encl a
renown point  f
against the Mu c
ribes to forge t
Downti m
Each characte r
conclusion of t h
DM Rew a
You receive 200
his session. 
Not for resale. P ec items for ease o
ers at the table a
f a permanent m
that one or more
ossessing a per m
t possesses the f
e item. If there i s
magic items own e
wner is determin e
mbers earn on
this adventur e
ave characters 
for negotiating 
ckmarsh tribe, 
heir own peac e
e 
 receives ten d
his adventure. 
ards 
0 XP and ten d
ermission grantedof reference. 
gree on one cha r
magic item, that c
characters indi c
anent magic ite m
fewest permane n
s a tie in the tota
ed by contesting 
ed randomly by t
e renown poi n
e. 
earn one addi t
with the two t r
and leaving th e
e. 
downtime day s
downtime day s
 
 to print or photoracter taking 
character gets 
cate an 
m, the 
nt magic 
l number of 
characters, 
he DM. 
nt for 
tional 
ribes to ally 
e other 
s at the 
s for running 
copy this docume 
  
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
nt for personal usDru m
se only.  ms in the MMarsh 
20 
 
 C
M
  
A
H
S
  
   
S
L
C
  
A
C
H
 
C
L
  
A
H
S
      
S
S
L
C
  
H
A
B
H
(
a
G
L
  
A
H
S
    
A
Comm o
Medium humanoi d
Armor Class  10 
Hit Points  4 (1d8
Speed  30 ft. 
STR DE X
10 (+0) 10 ( +
Senses  passive P e
Languages  any o n
Challenge 0 (10 X
Actions 
Club. Melee Wea p
Hit: 2 (1d4) blud g
Croco d
Large beast, unalig n
Armor Class  12 (n
Hit Points  19 (3d
Speed  20 ft., swi m
STR DE X
15 (+2) 10 ( +
Skills Stealth +2 
Senses  passive P e
Languages  — 
Challenge 1/2 (1 0
Hold Breath. The
Actions 
Bite. Melee Weap o
Hit: 7 (1d10 + 2) 
escape DC 12). U
and the crocodil e
Giant G
Large beast, unalig n
Armor Class  11 (n
Hit Points  19 (3d
Speed  40 ft. 
STR DE X
17 (+3) 11 ( +
Not for resale. P e
Appen
oner 
d (any race), any a l
) 
X CON 
+0) 10 (+0) 
erception 10 
ne language (us u
XP) 
pon Attack:  +2 to 
geoning damage
dile 
ned 
natural armor) 
10 + 3) 
m 30 ft. 
X CON 
+0) 13 (+1) 
erception 10 
00 XP) 
 crocodile can h o
on Attack:  +4 to h
piercing damag e
Until this grappl e
e can’t bite anoth
Goat 
ned 
natural armor) 
10 + 3) 
X CON 
+0) 12 (+1) 
ermission granted
ndix: M
lignment 
INT WIS 
10 (+0) 10 (+ 0
ually Common) 
hit, reach 5 ft., o
. 
INT WIS 
2 (−4) 10 (+ 0
old its breath for 
hit, reach 5 ft., o n
e, and the target 
e ends, the targe t
er target. 
INT WIS 
3 (−4) 12 (+ 1
 to print or photo
Monst
CHA 
0) 10 (+0) 
one target. 
CHA 
0) 5 (−3) 
15 minutes. 
ne creature. 
is grappled 
t is restrained, 
CHA 
1) 6 (−2)  
copy this docume
ter/NP
  
Senses  p
Langua g
Challen g
  
Charge.target a
n
target t a
is a cre a
or be kn
Sure-Fo o
saving t h
Actio
Ram.  M
Hit: 8 (2
 
Gia
Large be a
  
Armor C
Hit Poi n
Speed  20
  
 STR
 15 (+2 )
  Senses  
d
Langua g
Challen g
  
Amphib i
Standin g
high jum
Actio
Bite.  Me
7 (1d10 
and the ends, thtarget. 
Swallo
w
smaller t
swallow e
blinded 
other ef f
damage have on If the 
t
by it an d
exiting p
nt for personal us
PC St a
passive Percepti o
ges — 
ge 1/2 (100 XP)
If the goat mov e
nd then hits it wi
akes an extra 5 ( 2
ature, it must su c
ocked prone. 
oted. The goat h a
hrows made aga
ons 
elee Weapon Att a
2d4 + 3) bludgeo
ant To a
ast, unaligned 
Class 11 
nts 39 (6d10 + 6)
0 ft., swim 40 ft.
DEX C
) 13 (+1) 1 3
darkvision 30 ft.,
ges — 
ge 1 (200 XP) 
ious. The toad c a
g Leap. The toa d
mp is up to 10 fe e
ons 
elee Weapon Atta
+ 2) piercing da m
target is grappl e
e target is restra
w. The toad mak e
target it is grap p
ed, and the grap
and restrained, i
ffects outside the
 at the start of e a
ly one target sw a
toad dies, a swal
d can escape fro m
prone. 
Dru m
se only.  
atisti
on 11 
es at least 20 fee t
ith a ram attack o
2d4) bludgeonin g
cceed on a DC 1 3
as advantage on 
ainst effects that w
ack: +5 to hit, re a
ning damage. 
ad 
 
CON INT 
3 (+1) 2 ( −4) 
 passive Percept
an breathe air an
d’s long jump is u
et, with or witho u
ck: +4 to hit, rea c
mage plus 5 (1d
ed (escape DC 1 3
ained, and the to a
es one bite attac k
pling. If the attac k
ple ends. The s w
it has total cover 
e toad, and it tak e
ach of the toad’s 
allowed at a tim e
llowed creature i
m the corpse usi
ms in the M
ics 
t straight toward 
on the same tur n
g damage. If the 
3 Strength savin g
Strength and D e
would knock it p
ach 5 ft., one tar g
WIS C
10 (+0) 3 
tion 10 
d water. 
up to 20 feet an d
ut a running sta r
ch 5 ft., one targ e
10) poison dam a
3). Until this gra p
ad can’t bite ano
k against a Medi u
k hits, the target 
wallowed target i s
 against attacks a
es 10 (3d6) acid 
 turns. The toad 
e. 
s no longer rest r
ng 5 feet of mov
Marsh 
21  a 
n, the 
target 
g throw 
exterity 
rone. 
get. 
CHA 
(−4) 
d its 
rt. 
et. Hit: 
age, 
pple 
ther 
um or 
is 
s 
and 
can 
rained 
ement, 
 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   22 
 Lizardfolk 
Medium humanoid (lizardfolk), neutral 
  
Armor Class 15 (natural armor, shield) 
Hit Points  22 (4d8 + 4) 
Speed  30 ft., swim 30 ft. 
   STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
 15 (+2) 10 (+0) 13 (+1) 7 ( −2) 12 (+1) 7 ( −2) 
  Skills  Perception +3, Stealth +4, Survival +5 
Senses  passive Perception 13 
Languages  Draconic 
Challenge  1/2 (100 XP) 
  
Hold Breath. The lizardfolk can hold it s breath for 15 minutes. 
Actions 
Multiattack.  The lizardfolk makes two melee attacks, each one 
with a different weapon. 
Bite.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 
Heavy Club.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) bludgeoning damage. 
Javelin.  Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 30/120 ft., one target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 
Spiked Shield.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one 
target. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage. 
Twilight Marsh Lizardfolk Raiders 
Raiders out to capture quarry carry a net or blowgun in addition 
to the attacks listed in the stat block. 
 
Net. Melee Weapon Attack:  +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one Medium or 
one Small target. Hit: target is restrain ed and falls prone. 
 
Blowgun.  Ranged Weapon Attack: +2 to hit, range 30 ft./60 ft., 
one creature. Hit: 1 piercing damage, and the target must 
succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw or suffer 1d4 
poison damage and the Poisoned condition-disadvantage on 
attack rolls and saving throws-for one hour. 
Lizardfolk Shaman 
Medium humanoid (lizardfolk), neutral 
  
Armor Class  13 (natural armor) 
Hit Points  27 (5d8 + 5) 
Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft. 
   STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
 15 (+2) 10 (+0) 13 (+1)  10 (+0) 15 (+2) 8 ( −1) 
  Skills  Perception +4, Stealth +4, Survival +6 
Senses  passive Perception 14 Languages  Draconic 
Challenge  2 (450 XP) 
  
Hold Breath. The lizardfolk can hold it s breath for 15 minutes. 
Spellcasting (Lizardfolk Form Only).  The lizardfolk is a 5th-level 
spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom (spell save DC 12, +4 to hit with spell attacks). The lizardfolk has the following 
druid spells prepared: 
Cantrips (at will): druidcraft , produce flame , thorn whip 
1st Level (4 slots): entangle , fog cloud 
2nd Level (3 slots): heat metal , spike growth 
3rd Level (2 slots): conjure animals  (reptiles only), plant growth 
Actions 
Multiattack (Lizardfolk Form Only).  The lizardfolk makes two 
attacks: one with its bite and one with its claws. 
Bite.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage, or  7 (1d10 + 2) piercing damage 
in crocodile form. If the lizardfolk is in crocodile form and the target is a Large or smaller cr eature, the target is grappled 
(escape DC 12). Until this grappl e ends, the target is restrained, 
and the lizardfolk can’t bite another target. If the lizardfolk reverts to its true form, the grapple ends. 
Claws (Lizardfolk Form Only).  Melee Weapon Attack:  +4 to hit, 
reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage. 
Change Shape (Recharges af ter a Short or Long Rest).  The 
lizardfolk magically polymorphs into a crocodile, remaining in 
that form for up to 1 hour. It can revert to its true form as a bonus action. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is  wearing or carrying isn’t 
transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies. 
             
 
Drums in the Marsh 
 Not for resale. Permission granted to print or photocopy this document for personal use only.   23 
 Lizard King/Queen 
Medium humanoid (lizardfolk), chaotic evil 
  
Armor Class  15 (natural armor) 
Hit Points  78 (12d8 + 24) 
Speed  30 ft., swim 30 ft. 
   STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA 
 17 (+3) 12 (+1) 15 (+2) 11 (+0) 11 (+0) 15 (+2) 
 Saving Throws  Con +4, Wis +2 
Skills  Perception +4, Stealth +5, Survival +4 
Condition Immunities  frightened 
Senses  darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14 
Languages  Abyssal, Draconic 
Challenge  4 (1,100 XP) 
  
Hold Breath. The lizardfolk can hold it s breath for 15 minutes. 
Skewer.  Once per turn, when the lizardfolk makes a melee 
attack with its trident and hits, the target takes an extra 10 (3d6) damage, and the lizardfolk  gains temporary hit points 
equal to the extra damage dealt. 
Actions 
Multiattack.  The lizardfolk makes two attacks: one with its bite 
and one with its claws or trident or two melee attacks with its trident. 
Bite.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 
6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage. 
Claws.  Melee Weapon Attack:  +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. 
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage. 
Trident.  Melee or Ranged Weapon Attack:  +5 to hit, reach 5 ft. or 
range 20/60 ft., one target.  Hit: 6 (1d6 + 3) piercing damage, or 
7 (1d8 + 3) piercing damage if used with two hands to make a melee attack. 
      
                            
 
 
 
 
 
Appe
Not for resale. P e
endix :
ermission granted
: Map 
 
 to print or photo
of th
K
 
copy this docume
e Isl a
King 
nt for personal us
and o f
Dru m
se only.  
f the L
ms in the M
Lizar d
Marsh 
24 
d 
 

